Feature/detach testcontext base (#645)
bUnit-dev/bUnit: docs/site/docs/interaction/dispose-components.md

---
uid: dispose-components
title: Disposing components and their children
---

# Disposing components

> 
> Sometimes it is necessary to remove all components from the root render tree. With this you can simulate the behavior in Blazor when you navigate to a new site and all your components are detached from the render tree. This will dispose all components in the order from parent to children. It is especially helpful if you have event handlers which should be detached to avoid memory leaks.
> 
> bUnit comes with a helper method which makes it possible to trigger this behavior.
> 
> Just call [`DetachComponents`](xref:Bunit.TestContext.DetachComponents).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To dispose all components rendered with a `TestContext`, use the [`DetachComponents`](xref:Bunit.TestContext.DetachComponents) method.  Calling this method will dispose all rendered components, calling any `IDisposable.Dispose` or/and `IAsyncDisposable.DisposeAsync` methods they might have, and remove the components from the render tree, starting with the root components and then walking down the render tree to all the child components.

Disposing rendered components enables testing of logic in `Dispose` and `DisposeAsync` methods, e.g., event handlers, that should be detached to avoid memory leaks.

The following example of this:
```

I like to write my documentation in a terse and non-personal tone, e.g. dont talk directly to the person using words like "you" or "your". According to documentation folks smarter then me, this makes it easier and faster to read.

[!code-csharp[](../../../samples/tests/xunit/DetachComponentsTest.cs#L10-L15)]

## RenderFragments added via RenderTree

> If you add a `RenderFragment` via the `TestContexts` [`RenderTree.Add`](xref:Bunit.Rendering.RootRenderTree.Add``1(System.Nullable{Action{Bunit.ComponentParameterCollectionBuilder{``0}}})) this will not be disposed via the [`DetachComponents`](xref:Bunit.TestContext.DetachComponents) method.

Reviewer: Is this still correct. I think we solved this.

Author: For short: No we did not. Even with your provided patch, components added directly via the `RootRenderTree` do **not** get disposed via `DisposeComponents`.
